# Code 201 - Reading 5

## HTML

### HTML Media

1. What is a real world use case for the alt attribute being used in a website?

    Images may not be seen by someone with a disability who uses a screen-reader, but an alt description might be useful. I imagine this would apply mostly to situations where the image is not just aesthetic, but I'm not sure yet how someone with a disability experiences the internet, so it would be good to learn more about this, and it could help a lot for improving design.

    I noticed once that facebook had detailed alt images of my personal pictures generated by some image recognition software - I didn't intend to eneable this feature, but once it was turned-on by mistake, and I was suprised how much data facebook could mine from the pictures.

2. How can you improve accessibility of images in an HTML document?

    Add alt test descriptions and be aware that light and color contrast both for displays and human perception can vary. For example, a site that relied on the user seeing a difference between green and blue might be troublesome to people with color blindness, a not uncommon condition.  

3. Provide an example of when the figure element would be useful in an HTML document.

    A map or diagram related to some text content but not necessarily placed within that content would be a good use case for a figure element. It relates to some text but stands alone.

4. Describe the difference between a gif image and an svg image, pretend you are explaining to an elder in your community.

    Both a gif and an svg file can make a single frame or a animated loop of images, but the gif format does not scale without distortion - it will look blurry when stretched.  
  
    Also to note - a gif with curved sides on a non-white background will also often have trouble at the edges with a halo effect due to gif transparency & blending problems that svg files may not have.

5. What image type would you use to display a screenshot on your website and why?

    A screenshot probably needs to be cheap but clear and not degrade easily, so I would use a png, which has all of these properties, versus a jpg, which degrades, or other high quality formats that are expensive.

## CSS

### Color in CSS. Styling HTML Text Elements

1. Describe the difference between foreground and background colors of an HTML element, pretend you are talking to someone with no technical knowledge.

    Foreground color is the color of the content, and background color is the color of what appears around that content within the same block area designated for that content, so that one can appear behind the other.

2. Your friend asks you to give his colorless blog website a touch up. How would you use color to give his blog some character?

    Find a color scheme / pallete of complimentary colors, like from Adobe's color-picking site, then use those colors in a way that keeps high contrast for important-to-notice items.

3. What should you consider when choosing fonts for an HTML document?

    Consider how the font looks at different resolutions, stretched to different sizes. A pretty font for a large screen may not be comfortable to read on a phone.  Try to choose a font that is a clean fit, non-distracting, and fits the purpose / theme of the site.

4. What do font-size, font-weight, and font-style do to HTML text elements?

    Font size can change the actual size, by pixel or in relation to the document or viewport.  The font weight controls the thickness of character strokes, how bold or thin this should be. Font style changes the actual shape and / or aethetic design of the characters.

5. Describe two ways you could add spacing around the characters displayed in an h1 element.

    Margin or padding are properties to change spacing around a block of characters, but there are also properties to change spacing between characters, like the "letter-spacing" property, and between lines, like the "line-height" property, which act as expected, changing space based on pixel, or in relation to the viewport, document, or parent.

## Things I Want To Know More About

  I want to learn more about embedding media content in sites. I saw resources on this on MDN but haven't had time to read them yet.  Also, at some point, I want to dig into how to use JSON API's to access and control embedded media content from outside sources.  

[Back to Home](../index.md)
